# Versioning

All GDI projects MUST be versioned according to [Semantic Versioning
2.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html). GDI projects are versioned
separately from OpenTelemetry components as Splunk-specific breaking changes
MAY be introduced. GDI projects MUST indicate what version of OpenTelemetry
components they are based on through release notes and SHOULD indicate through
logging. Additional version number constraints can be found in the sections
below.

## Experimental

Everything in the specification starts as experimental, which covers alpha,
beta, and release candidate versions. Version numbers for releases MUST be less
than `1.0.0` while experimental. The minor version number SHOULD be increased
when significant or breaking changes are introduced.

While any component in the specification is experimental, breaking changes and
performance issues MAY occur. Components SHOULD NOT be expected to be
feature-complete. In some cases, the experiment MAY be discarded and removed
entirely. Long-term dependencies SHOULD NOT be taken against experimental
components.

GDI projects MUST be designed in a manner that allows experimental components
to be created without breaking the stability guarantees of existing components.
GDI projects MUST NOT be designed in a manner that breaks existing users when a
new component beyond the project's first component transitions from
experimental to stable. This would punish users of the release candidate
component, and hinder adoption.

Terms which denote stability, such as `experimental` MUST NOT be used as part
of a directory or import name. Package version numbers MAY include a suffix,
such as `-alpha`, `-beta`, `-rc`, or `-experimental`, to differentiate stable
and experimental projects.

## Stable

Once an experimental component has gone through rigorous beta testing, it MAY
transition to stable. Long-term dependencies MAY now be taken against this
component. The initial stable release version number MUST be `1.0.0` and strict
Semantic Versioning 2.0 MUST be followed going forward.

All components MAY become stable together, or MAY transition to
stability component-by-component.

Once a component is marked as stable, the following rules MUST apply
until the end of that componentâ€™s existence.

### Configuration Stability

Backward-incompatible changes to configuration, which includes environment
variables and system properties, MUST NOT be made unless the major version
number is incremented. All existing configuration parameters MUST continue to
function against all future minor versions of the same major version.
